Proofreading-OV-Runtime (#11658)
openvinotoolkit/openvino: docs/MO_DG/prepare_model/Getting_performance_numbers.md

# Getting Performance Numbers {#openvino_docs_MO_DG_Getting_Performance_Numbers}

## Tip 1: Measure the Proper Set of Operations 

> When evaluating performance of model with the OpenVINO Runtime, it is required to measure the proper set of operations. To do so, consider the below options: 

Author: ```suggestion
When evaluating performance of model with the OpenVINO Runtime, it is required to measure the proper set of operations. To do so, consider the options below : 
```

- Avoid including one-time costs like model loading.

> - Track separately operations which occurred outside the OpenVINO Runtime (like video decoding). 

Author: ```suggestion
- The operations which occur outside the OpenVINO Runtime (like video decoding) should be tracked separately.
```

> > **NOTE**: Some image pre-processing can be baked into the IR and accelerated accordingly. For more information, see the [Embedding the Preprocessing guide](Additional_Optimizations.md). Additional information are also present in the [Runtime Optimizations of the Preprocessing guide](../../optimization_guide/dldt_deployment_optimization_common.md).

Author: ```suggestion
> **NOTE**: Some image pre-processing can be baked into the IR and accelerated accordingly. For more information, see the [Embedding the Preprocessing](Additional_Optimizations.md) guide. Additional information is also available in the [Runtime Optimizations of the Preprocessing](../../optimization_guide/dldt_deployment_optimization_common.md) guide.
```

## Tip 2: Getting Credible Performance Numbers 

> Performance conclusions should be build upon reproducible data. As for the performance measurements, they should be done with a large number of invocations of the same routine. Since the first iteration is almost always significantly slower than the subsequent ones, you can use an aggregated value for the execution time for final projections:

Author: ```suggestion
Performance conclusions should be build upon reproducible data. As for the performance measurements, they should be done with a large number of invocations of the same routine. Since the first iteration is almost always significantly slower than the subsequent ones, use an aggregated value for the execution time for final projections:
```

> -	If the warm-up run does not help or execution time still varies, you can try running a large number of iterations and then average or find a mean of the results.

Author: ```suggestion
-	If the warm-up run does not help or execution time still varies, try running a large number of iterations and then average or find a mean of the results.
```

-	For time values that range too much, consider geomean.

> -  Beware of the throttling and other power oddities. A device can exist in one of several different power states. When optimizing your model consider fixing the device frequency for better performance data reproducibility. However, the end to end (application) benchmarking should also be performed under real operational conditions.

Author: ```suggestion
-  Beware of the throttling and other power oddities. A device can exist in one of several different power states. When optimizing your model, consider fixing the device frequency for better performance data reproducibility. However, the end-to-end (application) benchmarking should also be performed under real operational conditions.
```

## Tip 3: Measure Reference Performance Numbers with OpenVINO's benchmark_app 

> To get performance numbers, use the dedicated [Benchmark App](../../../samples/cpp/benchmark_app/README.md) sample as it is the best soultion to produce the performance reference.

Author: ```suggestion
To get performance numbers, use the dedicated [Benchmark App](../../../samples/cpp/benchmark_app/README.md) sample, as it is the best solution to produce the performance reference.
```
If you can substitute phrase "as it is" with "because it is", then it is preceded with a comma :)

> # Getting Performance Numbers {#openvino_docs_MO_DG_Getting_Performance_Numbers}

Reviewer: I think this one has been updated in https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/openvino/pull/11605. Can we copy all the changes here to avoid any conflicts?

Author: Changes have been copied. Thank you for pointing that out :)

-	For time values that range too much, consider geomean.
-  Be aware of the throttling and other power oddities. A device can exist in one of several different power states. When optimizing your model, consider fixing the device frequency for better performance data reproducibility. However, the end-to-end (application) benchmarking should also be performed under real operational conditions.

## Measuring Reference Performance Numbers with OpenVINO benchmark_app

To get performance numbers, use the dedicated [Benchmark App](../../../samples/cpp/benchmark_app/README.md) sample as it is the best solution to produce the performance reference.
It includes a lot of device-specific knobs, but the primary usage is as simple as:
```bash
$ ./benchmark_app –d GPU –m <model> -i <input>
```
to measure the performance of the model on the GPU.
Or
```bash
$ ./benchmark_app –d CPU –m <model> -i <input>
```
to execute on the CPU instead.

Each of the [OpenVINO supported devices](../../OV_Runtime_UG/supported_plugins/Supported_Devices.md) offers performance settings that contain command-line equivalents in the [Benchmark App](../../../samples/cpp/benchmark_app/README.md).

> While these settings provide really low-level control and allow leveraging the optimal model performance on the "specific" device, it is recommended to always start the performance evaluation with the [OpenVINO High-Level Performance Hints](../../OV_Runtime_UG/performance_hints.md) first:

Author: ```suggestion
While these settings provide really low-level control and allow leveraging the optimal model performance on the *specific* device, it is recommended to always start the performance evaluation with the [OpenVINO High-Level Performance Hints](../../OV_Runtime_UG/performance_hints.md) first:
```

```
to execute on the CPU instead.

> Each of the [OpenVINO supported devices](../../OV_Runtime_UG/supported_plugins/Supported_Devices.md) offers performance settings that contains command-line equivalents in the [Benchmark App](../../../samples/cpp/benchmark_app/README.md).

Author: ```suggestion
Each of the [OpenVINO supported devices](../../OV_Runtime_UG/supported_plugins/Supported_Devices.md) offers performance settings that contain command-line equivalents in the [Benchmark App](../../../samples/cpp/benchmark_app/README.md).
```

> While these settings provide really low-level control, and allow to leverage the optimal model performance on the _specific_ device, it is suggested to always start the performance evaluation with the [OpenVINO High-Level Performance Hints](../../OV_Runtime_UG/performance_hints.md) first:

Author: ```suggestion
While these settings provide really low-level control and allow leveraging the optimal model performance on the "specific" device, it is recommended to always start the performance evaluation with the [OpenVINO High-Level Performance Hints](../../OV_Runtime_UG/performance_hints.md) first:
```

 - benchmark_app **-hint tput** -d 'device' -m 'path to your model'
 - benchmark_app **-hint latency** -d 'device' -m 'path to your model'

## Comparing Performance with Native/Framework Code 

When comparing the OpenVINO Runtime performance with the framework or another reference code, make sure that both versions are as similar as possible:

> -	Wrap exactly the inference execution (for examples, refer to the [Benchmark App](../../../samples/cpp/benchmark_app/README.md)).

Author: ```suggestion
-	Wrap the inference execution exactly (for examples, refer to the [Benchmark App](../../../samples/cpp/benchmark_app/README.md)).
```

-	Do not include model loading time.

> -	Ensure the inputs are identical for the OpenVINO Runtime and the framework. For example, watch out for random values that can be used to populate the inputs.

Author: ```suggestion
-	Ensure the inputs for OpenVINO Runtime and the framework are identical. For example, watch out for random values that can be used to populate the inputs.
```

> -	In situations when any user-side pre-processing should be tracked separately, consider [Image Pre-processing and Conversion](../../OV_Runtime_UG/preprocessing_overview.md), 

Author: ```suggestion
-	When any user-side pre-processing should be tracked separately, consider [Image Pre-processing and Conversion](../../OV_Runtime_UG/preprocessing_overview.md), 
```

-  When suitable, leverage the [Dynamic Shapes support](../../OV_Runtime_UG/ov_dynamic_shapes.md)

> -	If possible, demand the same accuracy. For example, TensorFlow allows `FP16` execution, so when comparing to that, make sure to test the OpenVINO Runtime with the `FP16` as well.

Author: ```suggestion
-	If possible, demand the same accuracy. For example, TensorFlow allows `FP16` execution, so when comparing to that, make sure to test OpenVINO Runtime with the `FP16` as well.
```
